---
file: session
campaign: Adventures in Arthulion
---

|                 Previous                  |          Campaign           |                   Next                   |
| :---------------------------------------: | :-------------------------: | :--------------------------------------: |
| [[Session 26 - Adventures in Arthulion ]] | [[Adventures in Arthulion]] | [[Session 28 - Adventures in Arthulion]] |
A few years later.

Theriad has become a devotee of Nebelum, trying to learn more about the strange figure in his visions, and is working on completing his doctorate. Jason is somewhat behind, struggling with his internal problems. He and Lira have long broken up but keep a loose friendship. Duthrim married a woman named Lorim, and lives in the city of Branvol, an old and large city not quite fifty miles from the citadel, with his wife and his two kids, Jolvin and Birkgar. The three of them are decently successful. Theriad has been reinstated as a prince of Nolorei, and beyond that his research has accrued much funding, and with a lot of preparation and energy can teleport items without significant damage, and Jason works in law. Duthrim's forge accrues a modest amount of money that supports him. The three send as much support and money as they can to Kael and his rebels. They work to politically attack and discredit the Sonorous Lords. 

In the intervening years, Kael's rebellion has fanned into a flame. It spans much of the Sonorous Dominion. Theriad's long essays and Jason's impassioned speeches turn people against the Dominion from without. Whispers state that Neros may soon get involved in support of the rebellion. Jason, who has personally spoken with the Neroshi king, knows this to be true. 

Kael says he needs them near. Their tactical brilliance and old leadership and expertise, and Jason's nobility to aid in legitimacy, but they are hesitant to leave their lives and feel as if they can at least have peace this way.

The three meet at Duthrim's home. Catching up and meeting with the kids and Lorim, bringing gifts. They talk of old times. Jason and Theriad explain that they were invited to debate certain topics with some Sonorous politicians. Without official war breaking out just yet, and no open support or legitimization by any government by the rebellion, such debates have been common practice by Sonorous to maintain a veil of openness and legitimacy. They have attempted their best to legitimize the rebellion in the minds of people who listen to debates, and have garnered much support.

They eat with their friend and stay the night.

The next day, they go to the debate. Duthrim had intended to attend with them, but Jolvin picked up a cold, and Duthrim chooses to stay.  

They arrive at the town hall and one of the servants lead Jason and Theriad to a room where they're to prepare for the debate. As they are preparing, the room is filled with a poisonous gas and locked, with a parting note to Jason from the Sonorous politician claiming that she couldn't protect him from her father any longer. Jason is unnerved. Meanwhile, thinking quickly, Theriad barely manages to cobble together a small teleport. Since he is still developing the spell, it goes badly and splinches them, teleporting them into the cobblestone of the sewers beneath the hall and nearly killing them and draining Theriad of his magic and energy, but getting them away. 

At the same time, masked men sneakily break into Duthrim's home. They sneak up to Lorim and snatch her, but she refuses to go quietly, biting and kicking, and knocking over a poker with a clang. They subdue her but this has already alerted Duthrim. He helps her break away. As the couple confront the masked men, one of them states that they were expecting Duthrim to be at the debate. Lorim's favourite table is broken during the ensuing fight. Lorim overpowers one of them, but has never killed anyone and hesitates, allowing two of them to get the jump on her. Duthrim brutally kills the two that attacked his wife, and the others run away. Lorim flinches just this one time. He is ashamed of his own brutality. Lorim refuses to give in to shock. They find a note from the intruders, meant to be a warning to Duthrim that his wife and children were taken and that he could no longer support the Kael Rebellion unless he wished them dead.

Jason hides Theriad and dashes back up the sewers and confronts the politician and would-be assassin, finding her before she can leave the building. There is a scuffle and she reveals herself as Lady Miranjen Grellan. She is the daughter of one of the Sonorous lords, the Great Baron Grellan, who killed Jason's family. Back when the Sonorous lords had just began their conquest she had been his girlfriend and sent warning, allowing Jason and his little sister to get away, and her father had punished her severely for it, scarring her face. It is the same pattern of scars as on the twins from the garrison. He had believed her dead. She had sent the assassins some years ago. The note she had left was from her. She killed Leraniel when he nearly notified the Dominion of Janvar's location, and kept him hidden for years. He confronts her and she attempts to kill him. After a brief flirty fight, she gets away. In the confrontation, Jason kills her servant and smashes her trunk full of documents, taking handfuls of these documents. The Branvol guard witnesses this and tries to arrest him for murder, and he's forced to flee.

Jason staggers to the door, dragging Theriad’s unconscious body. After a brief conversation, they all flee to an old safe house they had long ago kept stocked. Duthrim is furious they would go for his children and wants revenge. 

Jason and Theriad are still recovering from the effects of the teleport spell, Theriad in particular hanging at death's door from teleporting sickness.  Theriad's notes denote an explanation of what is happening (teleporting causing teleporters to be shoved into existing particles and exposing them to doses of radioactivity as atoms coexist), and Jason searches through his satchel until he finds a potion that had been prepared to heal teleportation sickness, but it takes time and leaves the victim exhausted. Beyond this, the requisite expenditure of magic to transfer something with as much mass as two bodies has temporarily drained Theriad of his remaining magical energy. 

In his dreams, Theriad speaks to Nebelum. Nebelum tells Theriad that the book burnings of the Sonorous are a terrible thing, and that if he is to be Nebelum's champion, then he must deal with them. Theriad disagrees, trying to state that he cannot be responsible for the actions of others, that he is doing what he can, creating funding, helping people, and Nebelum states that he is disappointed, and that this is why Theriad has not yet grown to the potential Nebelum had seen in him.

Jason and Duthrim agree that they will not be safe until the Sonorous lords are brought down. Jason states that he intends to rejoin the fight with Kael, that his words are no longer of any use. The rebellion is slowly being crushed despite all their funds. Duthrim wishes to stay back with his family. Lorim is troubled.

They spend a week in hiding with a recovering Theriad. In the meantime they decode the documents and send messages to Kael and to potential allies, including the Neroshi King, Ravon III.

Decoding some of the documents, they begin to realise plans for mass assasinations and troop movements as the Sonorous Dominion intends to use the growing rebellion as an excuse to annex Sol'kas, a smaller but valuable country positioned between major trade routes, and who they claim is aiding the rebellion. The documents reveal some troop movements. Names. Spies. Valuable information to the rebellion. The documents reveal marks out for Duthrim, Jason, and Theriad, and a handful of others, have been ordered to be assasinated. Many have already been asassinated, all within days of each other. The rest have gone into hiding. The few that survived and continued to speak were assasinated shortly after. Two survivors still walk abroad in daylight, Sir Tarnshar, a former Sonorous knight, and a Golish duke named Nerol. Thaidror answers no attempt at correspondence. Nerol speaks for some time and agrees to stay in touch.

Jason and Duthrim agree that they will not be safe until the Sonorous lords are brought down. Duthrim plans to leave with Jason and Theriad and rejoin the fight, and plans to send Lorim with the children into hiding. Lorim is adamant about going with them, and refuses to leave Duthrim's side.

but Lorim is adamant that he go, and about going with them, refusing to leave Duthrim's side. It is a week until Theriad recovers sufficiently for them to leave. In the meantime they decode the documents and send messages to Kael and to potential allies, informing them that the time is now, then they secretly take the children to Lorim's parents, and tell them to go into hiding, and the four set off by the lightest and fastest ship they can find heading South to Neros.

|                 Previous                  |          Campaign           |                   Next                   |
| :---------------------------------------: | :-------------------------: | :--------------------------------------: |
| [[Session 26 - Adventures in Arthulion ]] | [[Adventures in Arthulion]] | [[Session 28 - Adventures in Arthulion]] |
