---
file: session
campaign: Adventures in Arthulion
---
| Previous | Campaign | Next |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|
|[[Session 29 - Adventures in Arthulion ]]|[[Adventures in Arthulion]]|[[Session 31 - Adventures in Arthulion]]|

Jason and Theriad sit in on the rebel council meeting. Theriad is still recovering from the fever, but doing much better with the new equipment. Jason insists that he should have stayed behind the first time. Theriad meticulously and compulsively records every last word spoken, his writing shaking. He is stopped by Hesta Tarnen, an older woman and a former chemist who was forced on the run by the Sonorous literacy laws and since joined the rebel council, who states that she is writing everything down already. Lord Nerol complains about not being let into the council despite being the main source of funds for the rebellion. Yan Rurik, the true head of the council, proposes that they should prop Jason up as a figurehead, taking the place of Kael. A large section of the rebel troops were from Lord Reneckvar Naiyar's military forces, survivors of the slaughter, or those who were not there in the first place. Lord Naiyar is someone many look up to even more so than Kael, who has a grasp on the rebellion because of his involvement with the Rokan Rebellion a decade ago, which was the primary inspiration for later rebellions, but Jason not only led that rebellion, but is Lord Naiyar's son. They reach the consensus of propping him up as their new propaganda figurehead. Jason seems very uncomfortable with this idea. There is a long debate on whether Jason should claim his name of birth, Janvar, as it is a noble name and contains a title, which they usually have dropped, but decide to let him keep it as it is his birth name.

Lorim and Duthrim oversee supply lines. Duthrim is deeply impressed by how unafraid she is to tell off soldiers. How easily she ignores the castes of the Sonorous Dominion that are deeply ingrained in Duthrim. He knows it is in part because she is not from the dominion, but it does not lessen the fact that it is impressive. 

Lord Naiyar had been called The Whist, for he gave great prophetic-seeming speeches before battle, and called out as he killed, and the there is superstition that whist's calls foretell death. 

 Rumours of his prophetic speech before battle, and the enemies fleeing, naming him the Whist, the selfsame title his father had once born, the title passes onto Jason. 
 
 With the backing of the council, Jason takes up again his name Janvar, the name he was born with, named after that title of Whist, a name meaning prophet, and takes up again his mantle and heritage as Lord Naiyar.

Duthrim and Lorim are given descriptions of Jason's father's armor, and make it swiftly. A well forged collection of plates engraved with feathers. The helmet is new, for Lorim knew Jason did not quite wish to be his father, and the visor was forged into the shape of a whist with great delicacy. Thus Janvar became Lord Naiyar, and again the Whist called in the lands. 

Jason admits to Theriad and Duthrim that he is not thrilled that he is inheriting his father's legacy. For though his father was a good person, his father still failed at his goals in the end, and died. And that his father was a true leader, not a figurehead. On top of this, Miranjen used to call him her little whist when he would claim he knew the future and they would be together forever. When Lorim asks why he didn't explain the discomfort to Rurik, Jason says that he dislikes the democratic nature of the council and the rebellion, that someone should be in charge, and if that's Rurik, then its Rurik, and he will obey orders. He trusts Rurik wants the best for the people of the rebellion and will follow all orders unflinchingly. The best thing to do is to have someone in charge with the best interests at heart, not to quibble over every decision until a consensus is reached. Sometimes there are distasteful decisions and a leader must do what must be done when it needs doing.

Theriad attempts to set aside time to study, but he cannot seem to concentrate. He tries to work out more details of his research but doesn't have the magical energy nor tools to test his theories. He attempts to connect to Nebelum. 

Janvar is given a painting of his father by a woman fighter in the rebellion whose husband had been one of Reneckvar's soldiers. She speaks of how great Reneck had been, having risen up from among the commoners. How he rose to the ranks. How his becoming a baron elevated the status of the whole legion. He was the leader of the common people, they had all helped him reach that level, as part of a plan to change the world for the better, and he made sure to pay it back to them, but it had all gone to naught.

He has a vision. Nebelum and the great library. But between himself and them, Elara, blaming him, accusing Nebelum of being distant and cold, accusing Theriad of being a bad servant of Nebelum. He tries to get through, he tries to argue against her, to no avail. 

He speaks to Duthrim and Lorim about it, unable still to sleep, despite his recovering state, who worry about him and his health. Lorim points out that Theriad reminds her of Duthrim, and that Duthrim should also be taking better care of himself just as much as he should be worrying about his friend.

Theriad speaks with Kael, and promises support from his homeland soon. Piecing together supply lines and more from evidence and historical texts he copied from the Citadel, maps of the constructions and more. Hesta talks to Theriad about academics, helps him sort through documents and takes extensive notes on her ledgers of everything including what materials things were built out of. She laments that in her age she no longer knows as much chemistry as she used to, and shows Theriad the books she has saved from book burnings, including some of her own. She calls herself a shadow of her former academic glory, cursed with the forgetfulness of war and age. Kael and Janvar begin working on an assault of the Grellan Keep with Rurik and the head tactician Maedh Korr, and King Ravon. 

Theriad is mostly recovered from his ills at this point, but his magic does not return.

Scouts report a force of Grellan troops will be passing near the main encampment soon, and they all make sure everything is well hidden. As people cease work and hide in their rooms in the caves, Jason decides to go through his stuff to put away the painting in his pack, and notices a stone in it etched with runes. He recognizes this as a sending stone, but not from where to where. Realizing that this was likely the work of a spy or traitor, he informs informs Rurik, who calls a quick meeting. With the knowledge their hideout is almost certainly compromised, they begin an evacuation. Duthrim forcibly sends Lorim away on the first batch. Lord Nerol also leaves within the first batch, insisting he deserves to be priority and leave with noncombatants because of all the money he gives to the rebellion. Hesta refuses to leave, instead hoping to load as many of the salvaged books as she can.

Meanwhile, they decide to discuss false plans in front of the stone first, and try to hide that they know about it, whilst searching for more of these devices. Rurik blames himself for not having searched Janvar, and figures that this was likely how Janvar had been tracked when they had tried to cross the border. 

The forewarning allows several groups to get away. and it could have been many more if the council had not spent so much time debating it, and Janvar is insinsed. He and Korr to start plotting a defense to buy the rest time, ignoring the council. Kael and Janvar publicly make announcements about their own intentions to remain until the final evacuation group, and Janvar prophesies that the rebellion will survive.

The siege begins, and fighting mostly happens in the long tunnels of the caves, running around. The Sonorous Dominion uses several devices to hold troops in pocket dimensions for a few minutes, allowing large armies to appear in corridors seemingly out of nowhere. Theriad coordinates the battle and evacuation with Korr and Rurik in the war room. Duthrim uses his knowledge of mines and caves to safely trigger collapses, blocking off tunnels. Janvar and a group of men and holds one of the passages from a wave of enemies, until the final enemies trigger an explosive rune on himself instead of being captured, causing a cave-in that separates Janvar from the rest, leaving him deafened and bloodied.

The scarred twins show up and give him some water. Janvar tries to talk to them, asking if they're Trellan's sons, but they say nothing and leave. A moment later Lady Miranjen Grellan makes an appearance.

She takes off his helmet, admiring the Whist on it. Miranjen proposes to Janvar to join them. That her father faked her death and long stopped claiming her his daughter. That he used her only as a tool for his plans. Revenge for how she spared him before, but at least now he did not care if she married him. They could be together again, if Janvar left the rebellion. They could take their revenge on her. She tells him about the horrible tortures she endured under him, and reminds him he had prophesied they would be together forever. Miranjen calls him her whist. 

Duthrim encounters the two twins as he takes command of the soldiers Janvar left behind, leading them to rescue Janvar. They fight the twins until the twins run away.

The two sides of Jason are in conflict for a moment. Janvar hesitates and wishes to join, but Jason refuses to abandon his friends. He tells Miranjen she can do so much more by joining them, but she states that her father is enchanted and can only be defeated by betrayal, and that even if they kill her father, more lords will simply rise in their place. That the common people have no hope. There is no hope but to bend the knee to whoever is on top, or to be on the top. She takes the figure of a whist off of his helmet, and holds it, telling Janvar she sees a vision of the two of them ruling over the dominion as Empress and Emperor. That the best thing they can do is be the ones charge, and rule with the interests of the people at heart, but do what must be done when it needs doing.

The twins warn Miranjen that Janvar's soldiers, led by Duthrim, are approaching, and Miranjen tells Janvar that she has a job to do here so she can't deal with him at the moment, but that she loves him, and to think about her offer, before she and the twins disappear into the corridors.

The war room has broken up as the final groups are evacuating. Theriad tries to convince Hesta to leave more of the books behind, or hide them, when Miranjen and the twins arrive. Theriad, Rurik, Kael, and Korr fight them, and Kael and Rurik both fall to the attackers. Theriad attempts to use magic, thinking he has recovered by now, but fails, and is forced again to fight with the sword. Miranjen sets fire to the books that remain and Hesta goes to save them, and Theriad stops her, leaving undefended the books they had packed and drags her away from the fight as he watches the books burn. The books Hesta packed are lost in the confusion and Theriad refuses to go back for them. He feels the divinity of Nebelum disapproving of him from within. Korr, Janvar, Theriad, and Hesta all flee with the final group.

|                 Previous                  |          Campaign           |                   Next                   |
| :---------------------------------------: | :-------------------------: | :--------------------------------------: |
| [[Session 29 - Adventures in Arthulion ]] | [[Adventures in Arthulion]] | [[Session 31 - Adventures in Arthulion]] |
