The Flameheart appears as a luminous, heart-shaped gem, perpetually ablaze with a gentle yet powerful fire. Its hues shift, reflecting the emotions and intentions of its wielder.

[[Althazar the Bright|Althazar]] was a ardwelian half-elven mage who lived in the time of the sundered war. Seeking to protect his people, he undertook a journey to the [[Undying Pyre]] to seek out Kossuth. Along the way, he picked up an ordinary [[Firestones|firestone]] and set it in his staff. His journey took years, and he spent much of the time cutting and perfecting the jewel, enchanting it with layers and layers of arcane enchantments during his journey as he continued to improve it. Within a handful of decades, the firestone became a hyper-potent arcane focus for the manipulation of fire.

It took Althazar several centuries to reach Kossuth, and he had not come to Kossuth without a plan, for he had developed spells of binding and of oaths. He showed these to Kossuth, and showed him how he could become more powerful. He could channel his power through people bound to him, people doing his will. He could extend his will and dominion over the mortals if they so agreed. And Althazar promised that if his people remained safe, he would serve Kossuth. And Althazar became the first Warlock. 

And Kossuth took the firestone and used it as a token of the pact, and he bent his own primordial magic upon it, but Althazar had made it too powerful, and the stone fought against him, and took some of Kossuth's essence,. And when Althazar took the stone and enacted Kossuth's realm, and he protected peoples from the brimstone and hellfire of the age. 
He could not die while he held the stone, and he dwelt until the age of [[Hechilspet]]. 

Althazar became a lord under Hechilspet nearly Three-thousand years after the Sundered War. He fought alongside the Warlord King. As Hechilspet rose in his power and malevolence, and his madness was more clearly shown, Althazar sought to protect people from his madness, and he fought against Hechilspet, but he was cast down and broken, and Hechilspet took from him the Flameheart, and used it for his own dark purposes. When Hechilspet fell to [[Eleutheros]], the Flameheart lay untouched in his vault until it again saw the light of day when a group of [[The Amber Wings|bandits]] took it. It passed many hands before Kossuth was able to reclaim it.