Source: Dungeon Master's Guide
*Staff, very rare (requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)*
This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class, saving throws, and spell attack rolls.
The staff has 20 charges for the following properties. The staff regains 2d8 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +2 bonus to attack and damage roll but loses all other properties. On a 20, the staff regain 1d8 + 2 charges.
**Power Strike.** When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 1d6 force damage to the target.
**Spells.** While holding this staff, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spell attack bonus: [[spell:cone-of-cold|cone of cold]] (5 charges), [[spell:fireball|fireball]] (5th-level version, 5 charges), [[spell:globe-of-invulnerability|globe of invulnerability]] (6 charges), [[spell:hold-monster|hold monster]] (5 charges), [[spell:levitate|levitate]] (2 charges). [[spell:lightning-bolt|lightning bolt]] (5th-level version, 5 charges), [[spell:magic-missile|magic missile]] (1 charge), [[spell:ray-of-enfeeblement|ray of enfeeblement]] (1 charge), or [[spell:wall-of-force|wall of force]] (5 charges).
**Retributive Strike.** You can use an action to break the staff over your knee or against a solid surface, performing a retributive strike. The staff is destroyed and releases its remaining magic in an explosion that expands to fill a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on it.
You have a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoiding the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you take force damage equal to 16 x the number of charge in the staff. Every other creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save. a creature takes an amount of damage based on how far away it is from the point of origin, as shown in the following table. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage.
| **Distance from Origin** | **Damage** |
| 10 ft. away or closer | 8 x the number of charges in the staff |
| 11 to 20 ft. away | 6 x the number of charges in the staff |
| 21 to 30 ft. away | 4 x the number of charges in the staff |